
" WASHINGTON — Congressional Republicans have a new fear when it comes to their health care lawsuit against the Obama administration : They might win . The incoming Trump administration could choose to no longer defend the executive branch against the suit which challenges the administration ’s authority to spend billions of dollars on health insurance subsidies for and Americans handing House Republicans a big victory on issues . But a sudden loss of the disputed subsidies could conceivably cause the health care program to implode leaving millions of people without access to health insurance before Republicans have prepared a replacement . That could lead to chaos in the insurance market and spur a political backlash just as Republicans gain full control of the government . To stave off that outcome Republicans could find themselves in the awkward position of appropriating huge sums to temporarily prop up the Obama health care law angering conservative voters who have been demanding an end to the law for years . In another twist Donald J. Trump ’s administration worried about preserving executive branch prerogatives could choose to fight its Republican allies in the House on some central questions in the dispute . Eager to avoid an ugly political pileup Republicans on Capitol Hill and the Trump transition team are gaming out how to handle the lawsuit which after the election has been put in limbo until at least late February by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit . They are not yet ready to divulge their strategy . “ Given that this pending litigation involves the Obama administration and Congress it would be inappropriate to comment ” said Phillip J. Blando a spokesman for the Trump transition effort . “ Upon taking office the Trump administration will evaluate this case and all related aspects of the Affordable Care Act . ” In a potentially decision in 2015 Judge Rosemary M. Collyer ruled that House Republicans had the standing to sue the executive branch over a spending dispute and that the Obama administration had been distributing the health insurance subsidies in violation of the Constitution without approval from Congress . The Justice Department confident that Judge Collyer ’s decision would be reversed
" After the bullet shells get counted the blood dries and the votive candles burn out people peer down from windows and see crime scenes gone cold : a band of yellow police tape blowing in the breeze . The South Bronx just across the Harlem River from Manhattan and once shorthand for urban dysfunction still suffers violence at levels long ago slashed in many other parts of New York City . And yet the city ’s efforts to fight it remain splintered underfunded and burdened by scandal . In the 40th Precinct at the southern tip of the Bronx as in other poor minority neighborhoods across the country people long hounded for infractions are crying out for more protection against grievous injury or death . By September four of every five shootings in the precinct this year were unsolved . Out of the city ’s 77 precincts the 40th has the highest murder rate but the fewest detectives per violent crime reflecting disparities in staffing that hit hardest in some neighborhoods outside Manhattan according to a New York Times analysis of Police Department data . Investigators in the precinct are saddled with twice the number of cases the department recommends even as their bosses are called to Police Headquarters to answer for the sharpest crime rise in the city this year . And across the Bronx investigative resources are squeezed . It has the highest rate of the city ’s five boroughs but the thinnest detective staffing . Nine of the 14 precinct detective squads for violent crime in the city are there . The borough ’s robbery squad is smaller than Manhattan ’s even though the Bronx has had 1300 more cases this year . And its homicide squad has one detective for every four murders compared with one detective for roughly every two murders in Upper Manhattan and more than one detective per murder in Lower Manhattan . In lobbies and family apartments outside methadone clinics and art studios people take note of the inequity . They hear police commanders explain that they lack the resources to place a floodlight on a dangerous block or to post officers at a corner . They watch witnesses cower behind doors
1.0"When Walt Disney ’s “ Bambi ” opened in 1942 critics praised its spare haunting visual style vastly different from anything Disney had done before . But what they did not know was that the film ’s striking appearance had been created by a Chinese immigrant artist who took as his inspiration the landscape paintings of the Song dynasty . The extent of his contribution to “ Bambi ” which remains a mark for film animation would not be widely known for decades . Like the film ’s title character the artist Tyrus Wong weathered irrevocable separation from his mother — and in the hope of making a life in America incarceration isolation and rigorous interrogation — all when he was still a child . In the years that followed he endured poverty discrimination and chronic lack of recognition not only for his work at Disney but also for his fine art before finding acclaim in his 90 s . Mr. Wong died on Friday at 106 . A Hollywood studio artist painter printmaker
" Death may be the great equalizer but it isn ’t necessarily evenhanded . Of all the fields of endeavor that suffered mortal losses in 2016 — consider Muhammad Ali and Arnold Palmer in sports and the Hollywood deaths of Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds — the pop music world had hands down the bleakest year . Start with David Bowie whose stage persona — androgynous glam rocker dance pop star electronic experimentalist — was as as his music . The year was only days old when the news came that he had died of cancer at 69 . He had hinted that his time was short in the lyrics of his final album released just two days before his death but he had otherwise gone to great lengths to hide his illness from the public a wish for privacy that ensured that his death would appear to have come out of the blue . Then came another shock about three months later when Prince accidentally overdosed on a painkiller and collapsed in an elevator at his sprawling home studio near Minneapolis . Death came to him at 57 and by all indications no one including Prince Rogers Nelson had seen it coming . As energetic onstage as ever holding to an otherwise healthy regimen he had successfully defied age into his sixth decade so why not death too ? Leonard Cohen on the other hand
" SEOUL South Korea — North Korea ’s leader Kim said on Sunday that his country was making final preparations to conduct its first test of an intercontinental ballistic missile — a bold statement less than a month before the inauguration of Donald J. Trump . Although North Korea has conducted five nuclear tests in the last decade and more than 20 ballistic missile tests in 2016 alone and although it habitually threatens to attack the United States with nuclear weapons the country has never an intercontinental ballistic missile or ICBM . In his annual New Year ’s Day speech which was broadcast on the North ’s KCTV on Sunday Mr. Kim spoke proudly of the strides he said his country had made in its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs . He said North Korea would continue to bolster its weapons programs as long as the United States remained hostile and continued its joint military exercises with South Korea . “ We have reached the final stage in preparations to an intercontinental ballistic rocket ” he said . Analysts in the region have said Mr. Kim might conduct another weapons test in coming months taking advantage of leadership changes in the United States and South Korea . Mr. Trump will be sworn in on Jan. 20 . In South Korea President Park whose powers were suspended in a Parliamentary impeachment on Dec. 9 is waiting for the Constitutional Court to rule on whether she should be formally removed from office or reinstated . If North Korea conducts a test in coming months it will test Mr. Trump ’s new administration despite years of increasingly harsh sanctions North Korea has been advancing toward Mr. Kim ’s professed goal of arming his isolated country with the ability to deliver a nuclear warhead to the United States . Mr. Kim ’s speech on Sunday indicated that North Korea may a rocket several times this year to complete its ICBM program said Cheong a senior research fellow at the Sejong Institute in South Korea . The first of such tests could come even before Mr. Trump ’s inauguration Mr. Cheong said . “ We need to take note of the fact that this is the first New Year ’s speech where Kim mentioned an intercontinental ballistic missile ” he said . In his speech Mr. Kim did not comment on Mr. Trump ’s election . Doubt still runs deep that North Korea has mastered all the technology needed to build a reliable ICBM . But analysts in the region said the North ’s launchings of rockets to put satellites into orbit in recent years showed that the country had cleared some key technological hurdles . After the North ’s satellite launch in February South Korean defense officials said the Unha rocket used in the launch if successfully reconfigured as a missile could fly more than 7
" LONDON — Queen Elizabeth II who has been battling a cold for more than a week missed a New Year ’s Day church service at her country estate in Sandringham Buckingham Palace said on Sunday . A week earlier the queen who is 90 missed a Christmas Day church service for the first time since 1988 because of the illness . “ The Queen does not yet feel ready to attend church as she is still recuperating from a heavy cold ” the palace said in a statement . The queen ’s husband Prince Philip who had also been ill was well enough to attend both services in the church at Sandringham which is in Norfolk on the east coast of England . The queen who ascended to the throne in 1952 became the world ’s monarch following the death of King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand in October . She is also Britain ’s monarch having last year surpassed Queen Victoria ’s reign . Her mother lived until the age of 101 . "
" BEIJING — President Tsai of Taiwan sharply criticized China ’s leaders on Saturday saying they had resorted to military and economic threats in order to intimidate the island . “ Step by step Beijing is going back to the old path of dividing coercing and even threatening and intimidating Taiwan ” she told journalists in Taipei the capital at a news conference . Tensions between Taiwan and China which have been rivals since the Communist Revolution of 1949 intensified in December after Ms. Tsai spoke on the phone with the American Donald J. Trump breaking a longstanding diplomatic practice . In recent weeks China has stepped up military activities near Taiwan sending its sole aircraft carrier through the waters near the island and dispatching military planes in the region . On Monday Beijing announced that São Tomé and Príncipe an island nation off the west coast of Africa that was one of Taiwan ’s fewer than two dozen remaining diplomatic allies had switched its allegiance to the mainland provoking an outcry in Taiwan . Despite Beijing ’s recent actions which she said had “ hurt the feelings ” of the Taiwanese people and destabilized relations Ms. Tsai vowed to avoid a confrontation . “ We will not bow to pressure and we will of course not revert to the old path of confrontation ” she said . Ms. Tsai faces the delicate task of registering discontent with Beijing while also sending a message that Taiwan will exercise restraint . The United States which sees Taiwan as one of its most reliable allies in Asia and has sold billions of dollars of weapons to the island
" Danny Cahill stood slightly dazed in a blizzard of confetti as the audience screamed and his family ran on stage . He had won Season 8 of NBC ’s reality television show “ The Biggest Loser ” shedding more weight than anyone ever had on the program — an astonishing 239 pounds in seven months . When he got on the scale for all to see that evening Dec. 82009 he weighed just 191 pounds down from 430 . Dressed in a and shorts he was lean athletic and as handsome as a model . “ I ’ve got my life back ” he declared . “ I mean I feel like a million bucks . ” Mr. Cahill left the show ’s stage in Hollywood and flew directly to New York to start a triumphal tour of the talk shows chatting with Jay Leno Regis Philbin and Joy Behar . As he heard from fans all over the world his elation knew no bounds . But in the years since more than 100 pounds have crept back onto his frame despite his best efforts . In fact most of that season ’s 16 contestants have regained much if not all the weight they lost so arduously . Some are even heavier now . Yet their experiences while a bitter personal disappointment have been a gift to science . A study of Season 8 ’s contestants has yielded surprising new discoveries about the physiology of obesity that help explain why so many people struggle unsuccessfully to keep off the weight they lose . Kevin Hall a scientist at a federal research center who admits to a weakness for reality TV
" Just how is Hillary Kerr the founder of a digital media company in Los Angeles ? She can tell you what song was playing five years ago on the jukebox at the bar where she somewhat randomly met the man who became her husband . It was “ These Days ” the version sung by Nico the German made famous by Andy Warhol and the Velvet Underground . Actually the song had been playing just before she met Jonathan Leahy now 38 on that December night in 2011 at the 4100 Bar in the Silver Lake district of Los Angeles . Ms. Kerr can ’t remember exactly what was playing when they met because at that moment she was jumping up and down “ like Tigger ” as she put it . In answering the usual questions Mr. Leahy told her he was a music supervisor for “ Girls ” the HBO show created by and starring Lena Dunham . That was enough to get Ms. Kerr bouncing . “ Your music has changed my life ! ” she told Mr. Leahy . Mr. Leahy who is quiet but not shy ( at least he doesn ’t jump up and down upon meeting people ) was mesmerized . “ My main reaction ” he said “ was it ’s a lot easier to talk to beautiful women in a bar when you ’re working on a hit show . ” They exchanged email addresses more an act of politeness than promise . Then their soundtrack went quiet for almost a year . Both Mr. Leahy and Ms. Kerr had active social lives but they were focused on their careers . Mr. Leahy who grew up in Laconia N. H. graduated from the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg Va . in 2000 and landed in Los Angeles later that year . Now he is a music supervisor with Aperture Music and is joined by Manish Raval and Tom Wolfe in being responsible for the music on “ Girls . ” The team has also worked on films including “ Trainwreck ” and television series such as “ New Girl . ” In addition Mr. Leahy is the music supervisor for “ Survivor ’s Remorse ” on Starz . Ms. Kerr grew up in the La Jolla section of San Diego graduated from the University of Southern California in 2000 and eventually made her way to New York
" Angels are everywhere in the Muñiz family ’s apartment in the Bronx : paintings of angels on the wall ceramic angels flanking the ancient VCR angels strumming lyres or blowing little golden trumpets on the bathroom shelves . As José and Zoraida Muñiz and their children have struggled to deal with a series of trials and setbacks including cancer debilitating epilepsy deep depression and near eviction it has sometimes seemed as if angels and love were the only forces holding things together . Zoraida ’s early life in Puerto Rico was like something from a tropical Dickens novel . She and her siblings and mother built a house by hand after a hurricane ravaged their home and the children ’s father withdrew support . Then Zoraida ’s grandfather — the father of her absent father — destroyed the house in a rage . She was barely a teenager when she met José a Vietnam War veteran . With permission from her uncle a judge they were married . She was 14 . He was 29 . They moved to New York in 1983 and started a new life . He built boilers . She worked in construction using skills she learned as a child and in a clothing store . But in 1987 Mr. Muñiz began having violent seizures — eight or 10 a day . They did not respond to medication . He could no longer work . She stopped working to take care of him . Still determined to live something like a normal life they started a family . Their first child José Jr . had a heart defect . By the time he was 2 he had had six operations . That ’s where the angels came in — the first one was a painting a gift from a cousin . “ When they operated on my son they told me he was an angel because he was supposed to die ” Ms. Muñiz 50 said . “ From there I figured that angels are taking care of me and protecting me and my family . ” All the angels are gifts from friends and relatives
